For single-input-single-output the “process efficiency” is equal to the
output energy per input energy. In fact, it is more often that we use
multiple input and multiple output. In this case the “process
efficiency” should be a set of input/output ratios, called “process
input/output ratios”.

However, this will cause an increase of the degree of freedom. For
example: when the input ratio is set to 1, the output ratio will be
equal to the process efficiency (*eff*). This can be explained as
follows: one unit of process through-put (*tau\_pro*) is imported in the
process, then the output electricity will be 1\*process efficiency.
Meanwhile the process through-put is related to the total process
capacity (*cap\_pro*), which is proportional to the capacity investment
costs (*inv\_cost*). Therefore with input ratio = 1, the costs can be
represented as:
:math:`\frac{\text{capacity\ investment\ costs}}{\text{input\ capacity}}`
(thermal power plant capacity)
or\ :math:`\frac{\text{Euro}}{\text{MWthermal}}`.

As the same to input ratio, the output ratio can also be set to 1. At
this time, the corresponding input ratio
is\ :math:`\frac{1}{\text{eff}}` , which means: for one unit electrical
output, :math:`\frac{1}{\text{eff}}` unit input commodity is needed. The
electrical power plant capacity can also be calculated as:
:math:`\frac{\text{capacity\ investment\ costs}}{\text{\ output\ capacity}}`\ or\ :math:`\frac{\text{Euro}}{\text{MWelectrical}}`.

The input or output ratio can be set to other values as well, but it
will change the value of efficiency and arise the mathematical
complexity.
